FOCUS #241: Commitment Discount Type Dimension (#240)
FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec: specification/dimensions/commitmentdiscounttype.md

# Commitment Discount Type

> A commitment-based discount is a commitment for an amount of usage or spend throughout a specified term, in exchange for discounted unit pricing on that amount. The commitment may be based on quantities of resource units or monetary value, with various payment options and time frames.

Reviewer: This is a very new pricing model ([EC2 Capacity Blocks](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/capacityblocks/)) within AWS that allows a 1 to 14-day term commitment.  The only net-difference that I see (other than term length from RI's/SP's across providers) is that after a commitment is bought, an additional charge for the OS-chosen may apply.  See the [pricing table](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/capacityblocks/pricing/) for examples.

```suggestion
A commitment-based discount is a commitment for an amount of usage or spend throughout a specified term, in exchange for discounted unit pricing on that amount. The commitment may be based on quantities of resource units or monetary value, with various payment options, time frames, and/or additional usage charges.
```

> Commitment Discount Type is a provider-assigned name to identify the type of commitment-based discount applied to this record.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Commitment Discount Type is a provider-assigned name to identify the type of commitment-based discount applied to the row.
```

Reviewer 3: Should we use "label" and "describe" instead of "identify"? In the short description, the use of "identifier" almost sounds like it's an ID.
```suggestion
Commitment Discount Type is a provider-assigned label to describe the type of commitment-based discount applied to the row.
```

> Commitment Discount Type is a provider-assigned name to identify the type of commitment-based discount applied to this record. For example, GCP might refer to a "Committed Use Discount" (CUD) while Azure might call their offering a "Reservation" or "Reserved Instance".

Reviewer 3: We don't want to add cloud-specific examples in the spec. That should only be in the supporting content. We could use a fictitious name, but I'm not sure that will convey the point in the same way. Can you see what we do for ServiceName and mimic that? (Sorry, on my phone and can't confirm that right now.)

Author: Ok, checked ServiceName and yes, it does not mention it. Moving to supporting content

The CommitmentDiscountType column MUST be present in the billing data. This column MUST be of type String, MUST be null when CommitmentDiscountId is null, and MUST NOT be null when CommitmentDiscountId is not null. Providers MUST use a consistent value-format and a set of values for CommitmentDiscountType values within their cost and usage datasets.

## Column ID

CommitmentDiscountType

## Display name

Commitment Discount Type

## Description

> A provider-assigned identifier for the type of commitment-based discount applied to this record.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A provider-assigned identifier for the type of commitment-based discount applied to the row.
```
